In software development we always deal
with collection of data in most cases.
We might display them in a list if each data item
is a single information or they could be display
in a table
If each data item consist of more than one related
information or records. In this lesson we will learn how
to present data in the form of list or table using vue js
v-for directive. The v-for directive can be used to
iterate collections the syntax of this directives
is in the form of item in items or item of
items where items is source data array
while item is an alias for the array element being iterated on.
in practice we can use the v-for for ranges
arrays objects and array of objects.
This v-for will replicate the html element where
we're defining it in the element. To follow along
this lesson
You can download the file in the course resource
then you can extract it and open it in your favorite
editor. If you use atom like me
you can also install atom live server plugin which allows
you to run the http server on the current project
that opened in the browser.
Another advantage of this plugin is the ability to
live reload so that any changes that we made in
the file will be automatically reload the page. OK
firstly let's make use the v-for directive to iterate
a range of number. Let's open the list rendering
one dot html
Here we have a list which currently hard coded. And
it contains list one through list ten. We will make
changes this list to be dynamic by making use of
the v-for directive. Let's switch over to our editor
and then let's open up the list rendering one dot html.
Here we have unordered list which has a class list
group and some of list items with class list group
item.
These are classes that are provided by
bootstraps to make all list beautiful.
Here we have vue js included and we need
to add another script to put our own script.
Let's instanciate
the vue instance
then specify the el property with hash tag app as defined in here.
OK here let's leave one list item and remove the rest.
Then inside this list item we can say v-for equals
and then let's say n in 10.
So this name is totally up to you but in my case I call it n.
And then let's change this text to list
or let's make use the string interpolation list
and then concatenate with n variable.
Now if I save and switch to browser
we will find it no difference.
So let me change the range to let's say five our list
should we change.
Now here we have five list items.